Abstract

Title: Advanced control algortihms for 3-axis camera stabilizer
Author:  Paweł Konrad Tymiński, BEng
Supervisor: Maciej Ławryńczuk, BEng, PhD, DSc, ProfTit
Keywords: predictive control, PID, LQG, MPC, artificial neural networks, robotics, manipulator dynamics, manipulator kinematics, robotic systems, stabilization, advanced control algorithms,
Summary:	
The camera stabilizer (also known as gimbal) is a 3-axis device widely used in the video industry, which purpose is to keep the camera in the position set by the user, with simultaneous compensation of external interference. These devices can be found in drones, specialized vehicles and as independent devices for manual operation.
The premise and main purpose of the work is to check whether there is a more effective way to control the gimbal than the commonly used PID controllers on the market. For this purpose, a model describing the kinematics and dynamics of the stabilizer was created, calculated using Lagrange equations and information about mass and dimensions of individual links. The simplified dynamics of camera positioning motors on each axis and physical control restrictions such as maximum camera position and positioning speed were also taken into account. The LQG linear-square-Gauss controller, MPC predictive controller, non-linear PID controller and regulators based on artificial neural networks as controllers for testing and comparison with the PID controller. Their main task is to correct the current camera position as quickly as possible, while avoiding distortion and oscillation. The simulations and the model itself were made in Simulink using code written in MatLab. Real interference location information acquired in different situations using a smartphone with the MatLab Mobile application was used as the interference test data. Two criteria were proposed for assessing the quality of regulators: total energy consumed during operation and the average mean square error (MSE) value for the entire stabilizer. 10 simulations were carried out for each selected controller (60 simulations in total), which allowed to learn about the operation of each of them in a wide range of situations that may occur when using the finished device. As the result of the work, the most perspective controllers for future implementation in a real object were evaluated and selected, i.e. the LQG linear-square-regulator and the MPC predictive controller. In addition, a complete tool has been created to simulate the behavior of various types of stabilizers and regulators, which will be the basis for further research and creation of new solutions, e.g. self-balancing or learning stabilizers.
